We now have complete example project set up with code compilation and testing.
For all the configuration I did in this project, I use Creative Scotland ESL.
Now.
As I explained the introduction, Quails Castle is not bound to Kotlin.
It's technically a Java API, so any Java language could be used to configure Gradle.
And whatever you use there, you still use the same DSL or the same API.
So for Gradle, it doesn't matter which option you choose.
It's the same DSL just for slightly different syntax for you when you write it.
Now, the most popular alternative to using the cotton version of the greater DSL is the groovy version
of the great DSL, which is actually the first cradle introduced before the Kotlin variant was added.
That's why a lot of examples and also a lot of builds used the groovy DSL.
If you use the Kotlin DSL, as I suggest in this course, you might still find a lot of examples or
answers to questions written in the groovy DSL.
So to give you some ideas of how the syntax is map.
I'll show you some examples of things that are often a bit different.
We will do that by switching things in our example from the DSL to groovy DSL.
Note that there's no problem to make these notations.
Basically, you can decide for every single file which notation to use.
So to switch to the groovy DSL for settings file or build file, we just need to remove the dot cts
extension.
Let's start doing this for the settings file.
We see that the file still works because the syntax we used in Scotland here also works in Ruby.
We do the same for our build files.
Also here.
It's the syntax we use in Scotland still works and groovy.
Let's take a closer look at the Bert file of the Business Logic Project.
While this notation works, there are alternative notations which are just provided by the groovy language
that are often used which are not available in Kotlin.
The first thing is that in Groovy, you can call methods without using parentheses.
Now, every time you see parentheses in the script, it's effectively a message call.
Because when the build script is interpreted by Gradle, it modifies a Java object, a memory by calling
methods on it.
So if we remove the parentheses, this still works because Ruby allows you to call method without using
the parenthesis and in greater build script.
It somehow became common to do it like this, so you'll often see no parenthesis.
And this won't work in Kotlin, so you would have to add them if you move from movie notation to quadratic
notation.
Another common difference is that Ruby also allows to use single text for strings.
So often you see IDs or names notated like this.
So if you have a bit of Ruby code that you want to move to, Kotlin usually can do a find and replace
of single text by double ticks.
Next, let's also convert our convention plugins from Scotland DSL to groovy DSL.
You may remember that we applied the plug and called Kotlin DSL in the build file of our Gradle Plugins
project.
And this plug in tells Gradle that we want to write convention plug ins in the Cortland DSL.
If you want to move to Groovy, we need to apply a different plugin which is called Groovy Gradle plugin,
which is a bit inconsistent, but that's how it is.
So if you apply that plugin creator, no expects us to write the convention plugins and groovy.
And as we've learned about the assets, who resources would end up in the source main ruby folder.
So instead of having a source Scotland folder here, we need a source manga ruby folder.
So let's rename it.
After we have done this, we can rename all our scripts again, removing the doctor's extension, and
then they become groovy scripts.
So here they are now.
A few adjustments we need to do for groovy because the notation is really different to the Kotlin notation.
The first is all the places where we refer to types, so to Java classes which were when we were just
at a task or a component metadata rule.
Movie doesn't have this type parameter like mutation that Kotlin has four types.
So you remove this part instead, you pass in the class as a second argument to the register method.
In Java, you would write that class after the name in Ruby.
You don't need to do that.
So we update all the places where we refer to a class like this.
Both in our base convention plugin and our application convention plugin.
Now.
The script's already work.
So there's one tricky thing that you should change in the movie Dstl, which I mentioned when we talked
about configuring tasks.
So if you have an existing task in Kotlin, you can just write tasks.
Name, for example, tasks the test as we did here.
I also said that this map's down to task, that name test, which you can also use now in the groovy
DSL.
You should always use the named notation, although the other notation also seems to work.
But it's behaving a bit different because it reflects an old way of configuring tasks from all the gradle
versions.
If you use that notation, it will cause the task to be configured directly every time a build is started.
Which has a practical effect that also tasks that will not run in the boats, which are not part of
the task graph, are instantiated and configured, which in a large build can have a huge performance
impact.
That's why this newer method of configuring task was introduced together with Scotland DSL.
This is really dangerous because the same notation means different things in both cells in this case.
So if in doubt, use the name notation to configure a task.
There are many other small details that may differ between these two DSL variants and especially in
Groovy.
They are different contexts to express the same thing.
But also the Scotland has places like this.
So if you encounter something which looks weird to you, it often does not use any new gradle concept,
but it's just a different notation for something you might already know about.
It helps to remember that all of these things are an API call in the end to the Gradle API, so you
can have a look at the API by navigating into it from the ID for example, which works especially well
in Scotland.
Dstl to check what methods, for example, are there and if any of these matches the notation you see.
Also, if you look into the great user manual, to which I'll also provide some links for further readings
of the topics we covered in this course, then you'll see that for each example, you can switch between
the Kotlin DSL and the groovy DSL representation.
This may also help to understand how certain things map.
Alternatively, to using one of these two DSL variants, you can also use a JVM language like Java directly
to configure Gradle.
This will be the last thing to look at in the final lecture of this course.